How much, uh, technical difficulties there with the programming,
like what programming language you were talking about?
What, what of zero? I like, maybe it was hard for us, but, um, I mean, we,
there was nothing,
the only thing that was complex about Instagram at the beginning technically
was making it scale and we were just plain objective C
for the client. Uh, so.
It was iPhone only.
At first iPhone. Oh, only. Yep.
As, as an Android person, I'm deeply offended.
But go ahead. Come on. This was 2010. Oh, sure, sure. Sorry. Sorry.
Android's on a lot better. Right. So, um, I'd take it back. You're right.
If I were to do something today,
I think it would be very different in terms of launch strategy. Right.
Android's enormous too. Uh, but anyway, um, back to that moment,
it was objective C uh,
and then we were Python based, uh, which is just like,
this is before Python was really cool. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like now it's cool.
Cuz it's all these machine learning libraries like support Python.
And right now it's super now it's like cool to be Python back then.
It was like, oh, Google uses Python. Like maybe you should use Python.
Facebook was PHP.
Like I had worked at a small startup of some ex Googlers that used Python.
So we used it and we used a framework called Jeno, uh,
still exists and people used, uh, for basically the back end.
And then we threw a couple interesting things in there. I mean,
we used Postgres, which was kind of fun.
It was a little bit like hipster database at the time. Right.
Which was my sequel, my SQL, like everyone used my SQLs.
So like using Postgres was like an interesting decision. Right. Uh,
but we used it because it had a bunch of, uh,
geo feature built in because we thought we were gonna be a checking app.
Remember it's also super cool. Now. So you were into Python before? It was cool.
And you were into.
Postgres before? It was cool. Yeah.
We were basically like not only hipster hipster photo company,
hipster tech company. Right. Uh,
we also adopted Reddi early and like loved it.
I mean it solved so many problem for us and turns out that's still pretty cool,
but the programming was very easy. It was like sign up a user, have a feed.
There was nothing, no machine learning at all. Zero.
Can you get some context? How many users at each of these stages,
are we talking about a hundred users, a thousand users.
So the stage I just described,
I mean that tech stack lasted through probably 50 million users.
<laugh> um, I mean, seriously, like you can get away with a lot with,
with a pretty basic stack. Um,
like I think a lot of startups try to over-engineer their solutions from the
beginning to like really scale and you can get away with a lot that being said
of the first two years of Instagram was literally just trying to make that stack
scale. And it wasn't, it was, it was not a Python problem. It was, it was like,
literally just like, where do we put the data? Like it's all coming in too fast.
Like how do we store it? How do we make sure to be up? How do we, like,
how do we make sure we're on the right size boxes that they have enough memory?
Um, those were the issues, but.
Can you speak to the choices you make at that stage when you're growing so
quickly?
Do you use something like somebody else's comput infrastructure or do you
build in house.
Or do I'm only laughing because we, when we launched,
we had a single computer that we had rented
in some colo space in LA. I don't even remember what it was called,
cuz I thought that's what you did.
When I worked at a company called OEO that became Twitter.
I remember VI our space in San Francisco. You walked in,
you had to wear the ear things and it was cold and fans everywhere. Right.
And we had to, you know, plug one out, replace one and I was the intern.
So I just like held things. But I thought to myself, oh, this is how it goes.
And then I remember being in a VC's office,
I think it was benchmarks off this.
And I think we ran into another entrepreneur and they were like, oh,
how are things going? We're like, uh, you know, trying to scale this thing.
And they were like, well, I mean, can't you just add more instances?
And I was like, what do you mean? And they're like instances on Amazon.
I was like, what are those?
And it was this moment where we realized how deep in it we were because we had
no idea that AWS AWS existed, nor should we be using it.
Anyway that night we went back to the office and we got on AWS. But we,
we did this really dumb thing where I'm so sorry to people listening. But um,
we brought up an instance which was our, our database.
It's gonna be a replacement for our database,
but we had it talking over the public internet to our little box in LA.
That was our app server. Very nice. Yeah. Um, that's how sophisticated we were.
And obviously that was very, very slow mm-hmm <affirmative> um,
didn't work at all. I mean, it worked,
but didn't work didn't we only like later that night did we realize we had to
have it all together?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> but at least like if you're listening right now and you're
thinking, you know, I have no chance I'm gonna start a start. I have no chance.
I don't know we did it. And we made a bunch of really dumb mistakes. Initially.
I think the question is,
how quickly do you learn that you're making a mistake and do you do the right
thing immediately right after.
So you didn't pay for those mistakes by, you know, by failure.
So how, yeah. How quickly did you fix it?
I guess there's a lot of ways to sneak up to this question of how the hell do
you scale the thing, uh, other startups, if you have an idea, how do you scale?
The thing is, is just AWS. And uh,
you try to write the kind of code.
That's easy to spread across a large number of instances. And then,
and the rest is just put money into it.
Basically. I would say a couple things first off, don't even ask the question,
just find product market fit, duct, tape it together, right?
Like if you have to, I think there's a big caveat here, which I wanna get to.
But generally all that matters is product market fit. That's all that matters.
If people like your product do not worry about when 50,000 people use
your product because you will be happy that you have that problem.
When you get there. I actually can't name many
startups where they go from nothing to something overnight and they can't figure
out how to scale it. There are some, but I think nowadays it's a,
when I say a solved problem, like there are ways of solving it.
The base cases,
typically that startups worry way too much about way too early and forget that
they actually have to make something that people like. That's the,
that's the default mistake case. But what I'll say is, um,
once you start scaling, I mean hiring quickly,
people who have seen the game before and just know how to do it, it, it becomes,
um, it becomes a bit of like, yeah, just throw instances. Is that the problem?
Right? Got it. But the last thing I'll say on this that I think did save us. Um,
we were pretty rigorous about writing tests, uh,
from the beginning that helped us move very,
very quickly when we wanted to rewrite parts of the product and know that we
weren't breaking something else, tests are one of those things where it's like,
you go slow to go fast and they suck when you have to write them,
cuz you have to figure it out. And
they're always those ones that break when you don't want them to break.
And they're annoying and it feels like you spend all this time,
but looking back, I think that like long term optimal,
even with the team of four, it allowed us to move very,
very quickly because anyone could touch any part of the, the,
the product and know that they weren't gonna bring down the site or at least in
general, at which.
Point do you know product market fit? How many users would you say?
Is it all it takes is like 10 people or is it a thousand? Is it 50,000?
I don't think it is generally a question of absolutely numbers.
I think it's a question of cohorts and I think it's a question of trends. So,
you know, it depends how big your business is trying to be. Right.
But if I were signing up a thousand people a week and they all retain like the
retention curves for those cohorts looked good, healthy. And even like,
as you started getting more people on the service,
maybe those earlier cohorts started curving up again,
because now there are network effects and their friends are on the service or
totally depends what type of business you're in, but I'm talking purely social.
Right. Um, I don't think it's an absolute, uh,
number. I think it is a, I guess you could call it a marginal number.
So I spent lot of time when I work with startups asking them like, okay,
have you looked at that cohort versus this cohort?
Whether it's your clients or whether it's people signing up for, uh,
the service. But a lot of people think you just have to hit some mark,
like 10,000 people or 50,000 people,
but really seven ish billion people in the world.
Most people forever will not know about your product.
There are always more people out there to sign up.
It's just a question of how you turn on the spigot. So.